[Label] Design guidelines (#278)
primer/brand: apps/docs/content/components/Label/index.mdx

---
title: Label

> description: Use Labels to add metadata or indicate the status of items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use Label to add metadata or indicate the status of items.
```

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/fcaa89e3-19c4-4e2f-81ac-a3f7e673034a" />
    <Caption>Use labels to categorize an item.</Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/aecf5346-e054-4dc0-b9a8-e4546bec4795" />
    <Caption>
      Don't use labels as an interactive or navigational element. Use a button
      or a link component.
    </Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

Position the labels to clearly identify the object they’re informing.

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/e7a44547-975b-4538-a293-92dae75907df" />
    <Caption>
      Give labels enough space to be clearly identified. Use size or color to
      differentiate them if needed.
    </Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/a6e606fc-cabd-4454-81d4-5e7e2befe0f1" />
    <Caption>
      When used along with other items, don't place the label too close to them.
    </Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

### Content

> Use label with with short, scannable text. If possible, use a single word to describe the status of an object. Use two or more words if you need to describe a complex state or category. For example, “Limitied availability" or "Enterprise Only".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use Label with with short, scannable text. If possible, use a single word to describe the status of an object. Use two or more words if you need to describe a complex state or category. For example, “Limited availability" or "Enterprise only".
```

## Options

### Size

Labels come in three sizes: `small`, `medium`, and `large`.

### Small

> Use `small` size for inline text or list items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `small` size for inline text or list items.
```

<Box
  display="grid"
  gridTemplateColumns={['1fr', null, null, null, '1fr 1fr']}
  gridGap={5}
>
  <div>
    <img
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/ee4b9073-8ae6-4178-bed5-2c54f6949656"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>
      Use inline small labels in a list of short content items for a quick scan.
    </Caption>
  </div>
  <div>
    <img
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/730a7836-40bb-461f-816f-1e1af39e6348"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>
      Give small labels enough space when used with longer content. For instance
      a timeline made of paragraphs.
    </Caption>
  </div>
</Box>

### Medium

> Use `medium` for medium sized headings introducing a section, or components such as `Card`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `medium` size when paired with medium-sized headings or in components such as `Card`.
```

<Box
  display="grid"
  gridTemplateColumns={['1fr', null, null, null, '1fr 1fr']}
  gridGap={5}
>
  <div>
    <img
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/02d09a61-1d19-49ed-8a6a-7a1338783dd4"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>
      The Card component allows for a medium label to provide extra meta data to
      the content. In a group of stacked cards, the label helps to quickly scan
      certain items.
    </Caption>
  </div>
  <div>
    <img
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/34891aaf-d79b-454d-aafa-177d1946df5f"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>
      Medium labels are great for headings that introduce a section. They help
      categorize the main topic and provide a visual break.
    </Caption>
  </div>
</Box>

### Large

> Use `large` for large headings that introduce a page, like a `Hero` does.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `large` size when paired with large headings, such as in the `Hero` component.
```
